Smart classrooms
Interactive white boards are used for classroom teaching and involve students to learn with technology. It helps in better comprehension of the concepts. This upgraded integration provides advance teaching atmosphere by connecting students to the global information and better visual explanations.

Computer Lab
The school has well equipped computer lab for primary, middle and secondary school. Every effort is being made to utilize the available facilities and develop computer awareness in each and every student. Computer learning has been recognized as an essential and useful tool of modern learning. All labs are air-conditioned and equipped with a fire fighting systems. All the Computer Labs are equipped with the latest hardware and software as per the curriculum.

Science Lab
Provides an open environment for students to experiment and do research work.

Geography ground
To provide tools vital to modern geographic analysis and thus creating interest in subject, offered as optional subject.

Maths Lab
Encourages the student to think and assimilate mathematical concepts in a more effective manner.

Library
Vast collection of books to provide access to a rich array of stories, ideas and information.

Activity hall
A vibrant place to provide wings to the thoughts of our students.

Sport room & playgrounds
A wide plethora of indoor and outdoor games. CES conducts Evening school training sessions for students in basket ball, skating, chess, Volley Ball, Kabaddi, Shooting and badminton. In recent years school team has bagged many prizes at inter school, district and national level tournaments.

Amphi Theater
An open air venue to conduct classes in a different environment, also used for presentations and programs.

Staff rooms
The teachers' lounge equipped with facilities for effective planning.

Assembly ground
A much awaited place by students as each morning brings a new thought, igniting their minds.

Kids pool and Play ground
To develop fine motor skills of our tiny tots.

Clubs
To bring out hidden talents of our children we offer creative, oratorical, dramatics, nature, fine arts, gardening, reading, health and wellness, maths, science, katha, riyaz and harmony club.

Activity room
We have yoga, aerobics, dance, art & craft and music room for holistic development of children. To bring out hidden talents of our children we offer creative, oratorical, dramatics, nature, fine arts, gardening, katha, riyaz and harmony

Atal Tinkering Lab
ATL is a work space where young minds can give shape to their ideas through hands on do-it-yourself mode; and master innovation skills. Young children will get an opportunity to work with tools and equipment so as to comprehend the concepts of STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math). ATL will have educational and learning ‘do it yourself’ kits and equipment on – science, electronics, robotics, open source microcontroller boards, sensors and 3D printers and computers. Moreover, the other desirable facilities are meeting rooms and video conferencing. In order to foster inventiveness among students, ATL will conduct different activities ranging from regional and national level competitions, exhibitions, workshops on problem solving, designing and fabrication of products, lecture series etc. at periodic intervals

Physic Lab
The Physics Laboratory is also well equipped with all the apparatus and equipment as per the G.S.E.B. syllabus requirement. Students are directed and encouraged to undertake experiments themselves, though supervision is done by experienced and trained faculty members. The lab also has a darkroom to perform experiments.

Chemistry Lab
We have a well-equipped and spacious Chemistry Laboratory with the capacity to accommodate 50 students. We provide the latest facilities to students for qualitative as well as quantitative analysis according to the G.S.E.B. syllabus. Students learn and absorb much more through pragmatic experiments under the supervision of well qualified and experienced faculty members.

Biology Lab
With the seating capacity for 40 students, the Biology Laboratory is equipped with modern equipments and apparatus like Projection Microscope and Binoculars. Students learn different concepts of the living world through models and specimens available in the Biology Laboratory.

Infrastructure:
The school has an 10-feet high boundary wall around the school premises which has been increased with a 3-4 feet chain link to enhance the security of the institution.
Cameras have been installed in the classrooms, laboratories, office, as well as in the corridor for safety of the students. Cameras have also been installed at the Main Gate of CES as well as in the Parking Area which covers the entire campus ensuring complete safety for students and staff.
Efficient security guards are appointed for patrolling day and night.
Each classroom has window grills and mosquito nets for ground floor.
Laboratories are well equipped to handle common emergencies.
Sports room is spacious, well ventilated and well equipped to handle common sport injuries.
The secluded corners, corridors, and stair cases are scrutinized by staff.
A direct intercom system is installed for speedy communication amongst the authorized persons.
A multi-purpose public address system is installed to make public announcements in case of an emergency.
Staircases and exits are constructed as per the safety norms.

Bus Facility:
All norms and guidelines as per R.T.O. are complied for the school buses.


Emergency Situations:
Fire Extinguishers and essential Fire Hydrants are placed in school at various locations and maintained regularly.
Fire evacuation plan is displayed at different places in the building. Students know and understand the evacuation plan to avoid stampede in case of disaster. Regular mock drills are conducted.
Emergency helpline numbers are displayed at prominent places in the school premises. An alarm system with sound modulation to alert is in place for all kinds of contingencies. Mock drill practice and observations are taken, and follow up is done on a regular basis. Disaster management training in case of fire, earthquake, and other emergencies has been provided to the staff, senior students and security personnel.
Regular preventive checks to ensure safety related to higher risk areas –electrical, fire, civil work, school gates, transport, etc.

Workshops/Seminars:
Right from the Pre-Primary Section, children are made aware of Good Touch and Bad Touch. Self-defense workshops, first-aid trainings, medical checkups, by well-trained personnel are regularly organized for the staff members. Self-defense training is given to the girl students.

Health And Hygiene:
Provision for RO drinking water and quality is ensured by regular chemical analysis of water sample.
Health reports are maintained by the school.
Dental, paediatric and eye checkups are done.
Adult education programmes are conducted for students to ensure emotional stability and hygiene during adolescence period.


